Azure Boards Customization
Create and manage inherited processes
Article
04/26/2023
10 contributors

Feedback
In this article

Prerequisites
Open Settings>Process
Create an inherited process
Change the process used by a project
Show 6 more
Azure DevOps Services | Azure DevOps Server 2022 - Azure DevOps Server 2019
You customize your project, Agile tools, and the work tracking system through an inherited process. The customizations you make are in effect for all projects that use the process. A process defines the building blocks of the work tracking system. Whenever you create a project, you select the process you want your project to use.
 Important
This article applies to Azure DevOps Services and Azure DevOps Server 2019 and later versions. To customize any project defined on a collection for TFS 2018 or earlier, see On-premises XML process model.
To learn more about what you can customize, see About process customization and inherited processes.
Learn how to perform these tasks:
Open Settings>Process
Create an inherited process
Customize an inherited process
Copy an inherited process
Change projects to use an inherited process or a system process
Add a project based on a process
Enable or disable a process
Set a process as the default to use when adding projects
 Note : Sammyfilly (blockchain-ethereum@outlook.com
You can review changes made to an inherited process through the audit log. To learn more, see Access, export, and filter audit logs.
Prerequisites
Prior to customizing a process, we recommend that you review Configure and customize Azure Boards, which provides guidance on how to customize Azure Boards to meet your business needs. For a description of the different backlogs and boards, see Tasks supported by Backlogs, Boards, Taskboards, and Plans.
You must have an organization created in Azure DevOps Services. If you haven't created one yet, do that now.
To create, edit, and manage processes, you must be a member of the Project Collection Administrators group, or have the corresponding collection-level permissions Create process, Delete process, Edit process, or Delete a field from organization set to Allow. See Set permissions and access for work tracking, Customize an inherited process.
Open Settings>Process
You create, manage, and make customizations to processes from Organization settings>Process.
Choose the  Azure DevOps logo to open Projects. Then choose Organization settings.
Open Projects>Organization settings.
Then, choose Process.
Then, choose Process.
 Important
If you don't see Process, then you're working from TFS-2018 or earlier version. The Process page isn't supported. You must use the features supported for the On-premises XML process model.
Create an inherited process
You can create an inherited process from any one of the four system processes: Basic, Agile, Scrum, or CMMI.
From the Process page, open the … context menu of the process you'll use to create an inherited process, and then choose Create inherited process.
Here, we create an inherited process from the Agile system process.
Screenshot of Context menu, Choose Create inherited process.
If you don't have access to these options, ask a member of your Project Collection Administrators group to grant you permissions. To find a member, see Look up a project collection administrator.
Enter a name for your process and optionally a description. (For naming restrictions, see About process customization and inherited processes, Process name restrictions.
Create inherited process dialog.
Once you've defined the inherited process, you can perform these actions:
Customize a project using an inherited process
Create a project that uses the inherited process
Change project(s) to use the inherited process
 Note
All inherited processes and their child processes are automatically updated with any updates made to their parent system processes. Updates to processes are documented in Release Notes for Azure DevOps Server.
Change the process used by a project
You can change the process a project uses from a system process or inherited process to another inherited process. There are two mechanisms to change a projects process. The first is to switch to a process where the project is derived from the same system process. Meaning, you can move a project between processes that use the same base process like Agile or Scrum.
The second method is to migrate your project from one process model to another process model. For example, change the process model used by the project from Agile to Scrum, or Basic to Agile.
For the second method, we have provided detailed steps for three common scenarios of changing the process used by a project.
Scrum to Agile
Agile to Scrum
Basic to Agile
 Note
You can change the process of a project as long as you don't have any undeleted work items of a custom work item type that isn't also defined in the target process.
Also, if you change a project to a system process or other inherited process that doesn't contain the same custom fields, data is still maintained. However, the custom fields that aren't represented in the current process won't appear on the work item form. You can still access the field data through a query or REST APIs. These fields are essentially locked from changes and appear as read-only values.
Choose the process that contains the project you want to change. For example, say you want to change a project from Agile to Scrum, then choose the Agile process.
Screenshot of Choose the Agile process.
Choose Projects, and then choose the actions icon for the project you want to change, and select Change process.
Screenshot of Choose Projects tab.
Follow the steps in the wizard
 Important
When you change a project to use an inherited process, you may find one or more Agile tools or work items appear in an invalid state. For example:
If you make a field required, work items with that field undefined show an error message. You'll need to resolve the errors to make additional changes and save the work item.
If you add or remove/hide workflow states of a WIT that appears on the Kanban board, you'll need to update the Kanban board column configurations for all teams defined in the project.
Create a project from a process
Open the … context menu for the process you want to use and choose New team project.
Screenshot of Create a project from the selected process.
The Create new project page opens. Fill out the form. To learn more, see Create a project.
Create new project dialog.
Copy a process
It's a good practice to test the customizations you make before rolling out the changes to your organization. To test your customization, you create a copy of a process, make your updates, verify the updates appear as desired, and then move projects to the new process.
 Tip
If you make a change to a process that is used by one or more projects, each project that uses the process updates immediately to the incremental process change. To bundle your process changes before you roll them out to all projects, following the steps outlined next.
Create a copy of the process that you want to change. From the Process page, open the … context menu for the process you want to copy and choose Copy process.
Screenshot of selection to Make a copy of an inherited process.
Fill out the form with the name of the copied process and choose Copy process.
Copy process dialog.
Make your changes to the copied process. Since no project is using this process, these changes do not impact any project.
To verify your changes, create a test project based on the copied and updated process. If you have already created a test project, change the process of the test project using the Change project to use ProcessName option from the context menu.
Once you have fully tested your customizations, you're ready to roll out your changes to all projects. To roll out your changes, change the process of the projects that need the new changes. Select the Change project to use ProcessName option from the context menu.
Disable or delete the original process.
Enable/disable a process
To prevent projects being created from a process, you disable it. You might choose this option when you want to apply several customizations and don't want the process used until they are complete. Or, you might want to retire use of a process in favor of moving projects to a new process.
All system processes and newly created inherited processes are enabled by default.
To disable or enable a process, open the … context menu for the process and choose Disable process or Enable process.
Set the default process
Set an inherited process as the default to have it pre-selected for other projects you plan to create.
To set a process as the default, open the … context menu for the inherited process and choose Set as default process. This option isn't available with any of the system processes.
Project Collection Administrators can add projects from the Projects page.
Try this next
Add and manage fields for an inherited process Or Add and manage work item types
Related articles
About process customization and inherited processes
Customize a project using an inherited process.
Programmatically work with processes

You can get, create, update, and delete processes defined for an organization using the REST API, Processes.
Feedback

Submit and view feedback for
This product
This page
 View all page feedback 
Additional resources

Documentation
Define area paths and assign to a team - Azure Boards
Group work items based on team, product, or feature area by defining area paths for Azure Boards and Azure DevOps.
Customize a project - Azure DevOps Services
Your guide to configuring and customizing work tracking processes for a project by customizing an inherited process
Add a custom rule to a work item type - Azure DevOps Services
Add a custom rule to a work item type defined for an inherited process and project
Show 5 more
English (United States)

Theme
